

**Chad / AJ / Betty**
=====================

Attendees:

Edsona,Phillip6

edsona@msu.edu,phillip6@msu.edu

2025\-09\-08T14:45:00\-04:00

\-\-\-\-

\#\#\# NSF Supplement Project Discussion

\- Met with Margaret and recently with Jonathan

\- Margaret now deputy director (promoted from program officer role)

\- Jonathan stepping in as program officer for learning analytics project and taking over Margaret’s other responsibilities

\- Ran Option 1 by Jonathan \- testing class sort and filtering options alone

\- Fits some DCL language but insufficient for requirements

\- NSF clearly looking for new development, not just testing existing features

\- Option 2 focus: integrate large language model (LLM)

\- Send student work with rubric to LLM

\- Return feedback to students and teachers using class filter

\- Less infrastructure needed on Clue platform side

\- New capability not currently funded

\#\#\# Project Positioning Challenges

\- Jonathan emphasized this will be very competitive supplement (not typical supplement)

\- Only funding existing K\-12 AI or computer science education projects

\- Need stronger argument that this qualifies as AI project

\- Current challenge: don’t have AI model yet, so harder to defend as “AI project”

\- Jonathan needs one\-pager showing:

\- This is squarely an AI project

\- Will build new features/do new development

\- Jonathan new to this, went to in\-house meetings after initial discussion

\- In\-house team not entirely clear on funding criteria or expectations

\- Two\-month turnaround timeline

\- Need something Jonathan can easily advocate for internally

\#\#\# Implementation Strategy \& Next Steps

\- Scaling/availability requirements from NSF feedback:

\- Must expand beyond just project participants

\- Consider digital sample unit approach (parallel to publisher’s existing sample units)

\- Make available to any teacher during academic year 2026\-27

\- Could include both CMP users and non\-CMP users

\- Technical scope discussion:

\- LLM integration for three rubric criteria (parts/whole, strategy, representation)

\- Potentially generative piece \- creating new class examples

\- Prompt engineering iterations throughout year

\- User feedback mechanism (thumbs up/down rating system)

\- Same model across all problem types (not task\-specific models)

\- Funding context from Margaret:

\- \\\~40 projects competing for $30M total

\- Possible additional funding if Senate budget passes

\- Rolling deadline may reduce total submissions

\- Move quickly recommended, definitely before December

\#\#\# Action Items

\- AJ/Betty: Send Chad one\-pager draft by end of day today

\- Chad: Check internal capabilities vs. new development needs, get budget estimates

\- Team: Meet with Jonathan again next Thursday afternoon (tentatively scheduled)

\-\-\-

Chat with meeting transcript: \[https://notes.granola.ai/d/4264518b\-d202\-4dc2\-af50\-c2ced96ac6ef?source\=zapier](https://notes.granola.ai/d/4264518b\-d202\-4dc2\-af50\-c2ced96ac6ef?source\=zapier)

\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=

\-\-\-\-

Granola link: https://notes.granola.ai/d/4264518b\-d202\-4dc2\-af50\-c2ced96ac6ef

\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=

Transcript:

Me: Hello. I'm okay. How are you?

Them: Hi, Chad. How are you? Good. Betty went to go get her hot tea.

Me: Oh, very good. That time of day. Right?

Them: I don't know if it's she's always had this way or is ever since she lived in England.

Me: There we go. So tea tea time is a thing.

Them: She don't.

Me: Has this been AJ was was musing. Is this since you lived in England or always? Or what's the what's tea time origin for you?

Them: Oh, I don't know. I just a few years ago, was a big coffee drinker. And I just started drinking tea. I don't know where

Me: Did you always have coffee in the afternoons too?

Them: oh, yeah. When you grew up in the Midwest, there was always a coffee pot that went on all day long.

Me: Yeah. Of course. Mhmm.

Them: Coffee going. And by by the time the evening came, the spoons dropped straight in the coffee.

Me: Yeah. Right. Uh\-huh. Yep.

Them: Did you remember Minnesota, right, I think?

Me: Yeah. I lived in Minnesota, but I never got into coffee. I I occasionally have these energy things now, but that's about it.

Them: We lived in England a couple years, and then there you we've got her to drink tea because

Me: Right. Yeah.

Them: coffee was awful. But now different

Me: Yep. And, yeah, I got into tea in Germany because I realized

Them: Okay.

Me: in the day one of my whole house family that I had to drink something, and it wasn't gonna be coffee. So so, yeah, you guys have been mulling and thinking and realizing all at the same time.

Them: So Margaret, we met with Margaret sent us the Derek Colleague letter link, which

Me: Yep. Mhmm.

Them: told you about that. We met with Margaret, and then

Me: Yep.

Them: we met recently with Jonathan. Who because Margaret was the program officer on the

Me: Yes.

Them: teacher one that's ending. And recently, she's now the deputy director So she's been promoted up in the system. So she's doing less program officer responsibility things And so Jonathan's actually stepping in for that other project.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: As well as he's the program officers for the learning analytics project. So we felt like we needed to meet with Jonathan because that's the program officer related to the supplement.

Me: Right.

Them: We talked to him We ran option one by him, and it just doesn't seem like it's I mean, it fits some of the words, but, really, it came clear to us that NSF is looking for new development. Essentially, out of this to your colleague letter.

Me: Okay.

Them: So the whole idea about testing the the class sort and filtering options, alone didn't seem significant enough to meet the dear colleague letter to him.

Me: Okay.

Them: So so option two that we talked about at that meeting and Leslie's on vacation, so, otherwise, she'd be

Me: Yep.

Them: here. So you're kinda

Me: Yep.

Them: serving both roles, I guess.

Me: Yep.

Them: Is what can we do with not a lot of money for a supplement that I think what we need minimally is to get us a large language model in there. I think. I mean, you could offer suggestions, but we've got the student work. It's tagged. We've got the the sort feature, but we don't have an AI model. I think this other project, Leslie, kind of has talked about that the infrastructure is kind of there. So my sense is there's less infrastructure of the Clue platform needed. So I'm hoping that with this and how we split the money, there's enough in there to kind of get us to be able to send student work with the rubric to the large language model and to get it back that communicates something to students and teachers using that class filter. List. So the question is, like, does that seem I mean, it it feels like it fits the supplement because we we don't we don't have money already to get us a large language model.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: So it's new stuff. It seems very relevant. The hardest thing so that's that's that's where we're at with with the idea

Me: Okay.

Them: you can kind of react to it. The other thing that's been challenging with Jonathan is

Me: Yeah.

Them: the dear colleague letter makes it they're only giving money he was very clear that this is not like any other supplement. That this is gonna be a very competitive supplement. But there's an assumption here in the beginning that says two existing projects that do k 12 AI or computer science education. So we also needed to do a better job arguing that we're an AI project.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: And at first and

Me: Yep.

Them: that seems more of a challenging thing at our end because we don't have an AI model. So as AI defined by having a model? Like, we're kind of, like, in that weird space because we don't have a model yet. So I've been working on some language for that. So that's that's been another kind of hang up, I think, for Jonathan. Like, he's gotta be able to have a one pager that kind of goes to other people and says, yes. This is squarely an AI project. And then two, this is gonna build new features This is gonna do new development of stuff.

Me: Okay. And do you have I'm just trying to get the the closest wording I can from him whatever. You have notes or recording or or anything that you could as close as possible to what he was

Them: Oh,

Me: saying about this? Because I think that probably the nuances might be important to this.

Them: everything that we the one page that we gave him was about the old thing, and I was and the one old one page summary, we we called it we first said AI simulated, and then we tried to call it AI foundational tools because we didn't have a model But then we were testing the outputs like it was AI. So part of it is our issue because the the one pager of how we were working on the other thing. But his most recent reaction was kind of a summary. Yeah. You can forward that. Agent's looking for that. He also was pretty clear that Jonathan was trying to get up to speed on this at this it's brand new.

Me: Right.

Them: And he wasn't clear on what the intent was. So he he had a after we had the meeting, he went and met with people in house

Me: Mhmm.

Them: They wrote us back this this summary. I think they're he said it was it was not they don't in housing, they're not everyone's clear what what's gonna get funded or how what what it should be.

Me: Mhmm. Did he say anything about funding levels or, amounts Are there the kinds of things that are

Them: But it can be more than 2020%.

Me: key? No. I mean, like, how much money they have?

Them: No. We

Me: For this.

Them: he didn't say. No. But it seemed like we could ask for 300\.

Me: Yeah. That's that's part of the supplemental game, and I'm just wondering

Them: And it doesn't get externally reviewed. And then I did talk about it's

Me: if they have

Them: pretty much a two month turnaround.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: So it sounded like we had to give him something that he could easily take to go advocate for us. And he seems he seems on board. I mean, I think he likes He's trying to get on board. So let me okay. I just forward you This is paraphrasing the feedback. He says, in general, the description fits under theme three. It hits that mark. It's not clear how many in the primary goal the supplement is to expand existing resources. So that's so I think shifting from option two to one will do that. And then it says the goal of the project is scalable in which is appropriate. However, testing those features didn't actually seem like scalable. Because in there, the first language says refine, evaluate, and or implement established k 12\. But his sense after that was really, no. You really need to develop new stuff.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: That's kind of my walk away from it.

Me: Mhmm. Expand existing resources tools. Yeah. Off look at the DCL again, too. Yeah. So, I mean, so his takeaway is no go right now. In terms of what you sent him at least. Is that the you sent him from Friday?

Them: So we're and the word expand is is We met with him last Thursday. We had the one page for the other thing, and then he he quickly, as Betty said, talked to somebody else and summarized that feedback after talking to somebody else. I was surprised because

Me: Right.

Them: the whole because I told at the end of the meeting, was like, clearly, we have to

Me: Mhmm.

Them: defend or argue why this is an AI project. And I I think I've been working on some language. I think I've got that. Taken care of at least I guess our question to you is, do you want some money? And to can we can we plug in the l m such that everything goes live for you know, twelve months, or we're probably gonna want a no cost extension. So twelve months plus a couple more months to keep the projects you know, featured working for teachers and students. Through it. A work work work? Do a first pass at a one pager because Jonathan eats that. But can but we'll also eventually have to do a budget

Me: Yes.

Them: and budget. And what do you think it would take to do some it just can't it can't be very large. It can't be elegant, but some kind of room.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Forward type. Our first attempt at an AI.

Me: That's a good question. You know, without here, I'll have to do some poking with other folks who are, who to this sort of stuff we've been doing in that direction. But I can I can do some masking around to try to see you know, what what we can leverage from existing stuff for sure? And, you know, and come back from there, I think. What's what's the timing you think we wanna get something back to to Jonathan and that necessarily involve budget. The first pass around, it's it's a one pager. Right?

Them: Well, he tentatively we've kind of hold the time next Thursday at this

Me: Okay. Alright.

Them: Thursday afternoon to meet with him again. So I mean, if I mean, obviously, there's a lot of details, but I'd like to redo the one pager, get something to you by, hopefully, the end of the day today.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: With just some draft language.

Me: Yep.

Them: Of what I think is possible. I mean, it sounds like yes, but you gotta check the numbers.

Me: Yeah. I mean, I'm sure that I'm we can always do something interesting. You wanna be able to something interesting that's gonna fit what they're looking for and what have you. And I just don't know the frameworks that we have, so I'll have to I'll have to ask around a little bit about already possible versus what would be new. That's mostly it.

Them: Mean, imagine it's not a lot of prompt engineer. I mean, what I don't know how much it costs to, like, plug in

Me: Mhmm.

Them: or whatever the provider is. Imagine there's gonna be a lot of work around the prompt engineering if we're using the rag model. Like, what is it that we're feeding into the what's the prompt gonna be? My guess is we can do lots of iterations

Me: Mhmm.

Them: of what that looks like in a year.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: With classrooms trying it out to kinda see if the model changes.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: I don't know know, then there's the feedback piece. Leslie showed us, like, a I think it was, like, a plus, thumbs up, thumbs down, some sort of input mechanism for users to kind of say whether or not they agree or disagree? And it's our model works for every problem. So in terms of assessing whether or not the model is a good fit, I we don't have to do many passes. Like, it's not a different model for each task.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: So that should keep the budget down, I think. From that end. You guys are the ones who are

Me: Mhmm.

Them: be doing that So I don't know what we get. I don't know how expensive that piece is.

Me: Mhmm. Right. Right.

Them: Or who does that. I mean, do you consult out to that, or is that something you do internally?

Me: No. We we do we'll do we do every all this stuff internally one way or another. Yep.

Them: Okay.

Me: Mhmm. Mhmm.

Them: Like, I didn't know if Leslie is the person that usually

Me: Yeah. Oh, yeah. I guess it depends upon what way.

Them: runs that kind of analysis. Or if there's somebody

Me: Mhmm. Yeah. It depends, I I think. But you I'm sure we could If it's tried to to sort of understand the the data loop and how to fit that together with, you know, another round of something. I'm sure we could do that internally one way or another.

Them: because it did say in here that they don't want new people. Like, if you have to art

Me: But Yeah. No. I don't think I don't think we need to do that at all.

Them: if you need new people. So, like, I'm just okay. And then and then, you know, essentially keeping the lights on. So I imagine it's

Me: Right.

Them: there's a fake charge for running it and how often it runs and all that kind of stuff. So

Me: Right. Mhmm. Yeah. Yeah. So I I can get a set mean, so if you put a one pager together or with what you're thinking, I can layer that against the capabilities we have versus what we might need to to create and that should help me get some sense of budget at least. And I think this feedback is helpful already from, from Jonathan. And so I'm to say, oh, and the more you can think about that scaling question, I mean, the the real question is can we put something forward that is isn't DOA, you know, because of the way it's framed? So that sort of getting beyond the people in the proposal. Or within the project is one of the key components that he was bringing out here. So if it's, you know, readily available to all, that's different than just those within the project. I don't know how to do that easily with you know, with the fact that we've got a curriculum that you know, and people that are used to this software but maybe there's some way of framing it for the broader, you know, community of, people in the curriculum that would say it's, you know, out or something like that. I'm not sure.

Them: Well, our rubric isn't just proportional reasoning and numbers. The way I've kind of argued scaling there is that this applies across math strands.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Algebra, geometry. We have all these units in

Me: Mhmm.

Them: seventh grade that I'll we'll work on it. It's the same rubric.

Me: And if they

Them: So I think that's that's

Me: if they say, are you getting out to people outside your project, what do you say? Because that's the question they're asking. Right? Mhmm.

Them: So what is your concern, Chad, again,

Me: My my concern is that the the the end of Jonathan's you know, response from his colleague was yeah, that looks nice, but it doesn't it doesn't fit the criteria. The punchline there was you know, you need to make it readily available to all, not just those working within the project. And so I think that's the the biggest challenge. I mean, these other pieces are obviously necessary, but maybe not sufficient.

Them: So, yes, it I did what doesn't I'm not sure what he means by available to all.

Me: Well, he means not just people on the project. So can we make this available to the broader something? Now we we we may have a space to define that for ourselves, but

Them: Oh, should we just make it available to more schools, you're thinking?

Me: certainly more schools if not all possible schools or whatever. I mean, that's that seems to be the spirit of what they're talking about. Right?

Them: What? I mean, so you're so there's testing it with a small number then just having the feature live for anybody who uses our platform with our curriculum. So there's a scaling there. We're saying,

Me: That's fine. If we can make the argument that that's actually gonna be meaningful scaling as opposed to, you know, having it in the curriculum just means that the people on the project are gonna have access to. Right? I mean, that's the question that that the skeptical person on their side is gonna ask.

Them: what other deliverables? I mean, is the prompt engineering process and what's learned by that

Me: I guess I'm being devil's advocate to say is there some way? And the answer might be no. There some way that we can say, yeah, yeah, we've been working within you know, this smaller group of people for this project. But if you give us this supplemental, we're gonna make this available for lots more people.

Them: You but we we we don't have the the grant? The part of the grant ends next summer.

Me: Yeah. That's right. That's right. They're giving a supplemental. It's happening within a year. They're saying, Within a year, can you make something available for lots of people? That's their thing, right?

Them: Well, we could

Me: I'm just putting ourselves to the wall against what as to whether we can say in a way that's convincing to them. Mhmm.

Them: What if we frame it well, in the spring when we get we'll make it available. We'll use a couple school district test it out. And then come fall, we'll make it available to all the schools on the site. It's still it's scaling within projects. But we could I think Chad's arguing what the scale outside open for the extension here. We could open it up. To more people. We could just open it up and see. And we know we won't get we won't get bombarded because we'll get a few new ones, but know, we won't get everybody. Because we can we can market it to the c m p four not even CMP four users because we have some schools on right now this year who are thinking of of of adopting c e p four. So they're using this partner's research. We can make it more available in our extension year to any school who wants to sign up and meet certain qualifications. I don't I don't know if we're ever gonna get around the curriculum. Though.

Me: Right. I don't know that we can

Them: It's gonna be research. I mean, someone wants to sign up for CMP. To for for this. We're collecting more data. But that's still within research? Chad's saying Jonathan's feedback is outside projects. Well, I'm not sure we can that NSF does you can't overnight deliver this and make it into a profit. Well, I think that's gonna set this project, you know, up one proposal apart from another one. I would like to know another proposal that's gonna say, alright. I have a new can of gasoline, and I can sell it tomorrow?

Me: Well, I think that there are probably lots of proposals who are like, yeah. Yeah. We're, you know, working with this small group of people, but we didn't have enough resource resources to, you know, go wide on social media with it, but, know, give us 300 k. And we'll AI is up and post it to the whole world. Right? I I think that's the kind of thing that they're I'm just being canonical here in my head. You know, that's the kind of thing that it sounds like. You know, they're he's saying they're looking for. Now we may not be able to get there, and we can frame however we frame it, and we'll get feedback. So I'm not saying we shouldn't but I'm I'm just trying to sure that we don't bring something that's already, you know, gotten obvious flaw that he's gonna say, hey. Didn't you read the bottom of my email? And we're like, yeah. Sorry.

Them: But the prompt engineering could be the prompt that we've set fed Chad GBT is part of the model.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: That could be given away. Right? That's a that's a

Me: Is there

Them: knowledge Like, this

Me: is there a curriculum module that is you you guys know better than I, but, is there like do people try CMP by trying a module or like a

Them: We call them sample units.

Me: test or trial or something like, hey. See how this with your customer. Yeah.

Them: Publisher has sample units that might get piloted by new schools.

Me: Mhmm. You know, you wonder you wonder if there's an opportunity to say we're gonna do a digital sample unit and make it broadly available for

Them: Okay. So wait a minute.

Me: anyone like that. Right?

Them: Yeah. That that, I think, is a yeah. We could go to the publisher and say, we have get permission from the publisher, first of all, because you're giving away something free. Can you give us Is there a unit in seventh grade with proportional reasoning that's already a sample for paper pencil that we could parallel do a sample for digital?

Me: Mhmm.

Them: I wouldn't want it to be moving straight ahead. I want it to be No. They'll probably say stretching or Well, I I would be happy with scamming. Okay. Yeah. I mean, we talked to them recently, and they said samples and piloting this year with school districts is kind of all over the place because everybody wants it at different times, and so they don't it used to be back in the day. I think CMP one, two, and three, it'd be, like, one unit, and that would be the

Me: Mhmm.

Them: sample. It seems like their model now is more whatever they want, they're willing to work with them.

Me: Mean, the other thing the thing to realize here is that, you know, with digital, you've got control over the horizontal and vertical as well. So you know, it's not like you're giving it to them forever necessarily. Right? I mean, you could shut the platform down after a year, a year and a half, or a month, or whatever. For those teachers.

Them: Yeah.

Me: So so, you know, I think you could easily say we're gonna make this thing widely available during this next year or two know, any teacher who wants to teach us something and it's a sample units are well established ways for CMP to gain broader impact and uptake in the world, etcetera, etcetera. Right.

Them: Could yeah. Because we And even teacher educators could use that. Well, I think alright. So we only would make it available to anybody who wants to try it out.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Given permission. The academic year 2627\. But not beyond that. Because and I don't

Me: Well, you don't have to say that

Them: think we'd get a lot of people, but

Me: NSF not beyond that either. I mean, you just say during the academic year 2627, we'll make this publicly to all teachers who, you are considering something and this is a, you know, well established

Them: including CMP users and non CMP users.

Me: Exactly. Yep. This is thing that, you know, CMP has done traditionally all the way along. CMP is very

Them: The king

Me: successful. We're gonna get too many

Them: can't ask for more than one year because the grant ends.

Me: Right. They don't care what you do after that.

Them: Right. Yeah. Because that's that's my con that's my confusion. Do they want once they want me to have some insurance and once the grant ends, it's still gonna continue.

Me: Well, I would say silent on that topic.

Them: Well, we have to because we can't

Me: Right. But I mean,

Them: okay.

Me: they're they're not they're not asking for that one way or another anyway. Right?

Them: That makes sense because we would get it ready in the spring or starting in January. And have this have semester. Recruit in the summer and then run with and we won't get a lot of people, but who knows? And I think

Me: Mhmm.

Them: talk of the publisher to keep going along with that. Yeah. It kinda solves this. It's a research. It's It's Can you get a lang large language model? And and my question back to that so

Me: Yeah.

Them: two things I want you I'm gonna send you a one pager today. End of the day. Two things. One, your expertise does the existing project we already have an AI project. And did I

Me: And

Them: BS my way on that one? And it can make it stronger? And two, when you talk to whoever you need to talk to, and maybe you call Leslie up. I know. But there's two keys to it. One is the language model to get, like, it to do the three criterion of the rubric, which is, like, is it parts par? Was strategy? What representation? There's that piece.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Giving the feedback. But there's also can it generate a new example of a class and then produce it? The the generative piece think I'm not sure if the budget supports both or one or what.

Me: Right. Yeah. The gender piece, I think, is gonna be more much more difficult. But

Them: But if it's, first pass at that I mean, you're you already got them. I don't know. Me, you you're already buying Chad GPT. You're already doing some language. Like, I don't I don't know what the requirements are for the generative piece if it's more than what you're

Me: Mhmm.

Them: doing. Like, to me, it feels like you asked for one. You you kinda get both at the same price.

Me: Mhmm. I guess it depends upon what what we're saying we're generating and how accurate needs to be. So so, yeah, I think if you write it up, I'll I'll take a look at it, and I can hold it next to the framework and stuff that we already have to know what we're where we're not over promising. Yeah.

Them: Okay. All right.

Me: Definitely. Well, it's helpful for me as well

Them: This has been helpful, Chad.

Me: to hear even if it's secondhand here what, you know, you've heard from Jonathan and from Margaret. Any of that intel is really at this point as well. So,

Them: Margaret did say the other proposal it's what was it? 40 projects? 40 projects for $30,000,000? She did say the cap won't ever change, but they might actually get more money if the senate budget goes through.

Me: Right.

Them: So she reads out, like, there might they might fund more projects

Me: Mhmm. Mhmm.

Them: with the same cap. And she doesn't anticipate more projects coming in because there's no deadline. Because of the lack of a deadline, people are less likely to send in. Does that that makes any sense? Yeah. Said other programs when they switched to a roll deadline, they actually receive less proposals.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: She anticipates a wave for the core kind of typical

Me: Yep. I

Them: submission, and she kind of expects a wave for the DRK 12 kind of typical

Me: Mhmm.

Them: submissions. And then she says probably one in the spring.

Me: Mhmm. Mhmm. In terms of just the way that people organize themselves, you mean?

Them: Yeah.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Because after, like, how they do review, like, reviewers, like, can I actually be reviewer if I submit, like, with it rolling? Like, how does that all so

Me: Mhmm. Mhmm.

Them: but it also kinda seems like I mean, Jonathan said a couple things. We're like, oh, we just had a meeting about this yesterday.

Me: Yep.

Them: So, like, they're they're all flying in the seat of their pants.

Me: Yeah. I think that's definitely the case as well. So yeah. No. That's I mean, it's useful to know. And and it sounds like this that program is money that's you know, next year's money. It's still coming in, so it's hard to know whether it's important how important it is to get things in sooner rather than later for that. The she did they say anything about timing on the supplementals? And sort of whether it's critical for a certain date or in general or how much money they have for supplementals.

Them: My impression was move quickly. Because you got twelve months to do it.

Me: Mhmm. Right.

Them: And certainly not

Me: Right.

Them: way past December. Well, I I think we should get it in

Me: Yep.

Them: I mean, I don't have that's the first deadline that we wanna meet, and then the next thing is the proposal.

Me: Yep. Yep.

Them: Yeah. Definitely buying I think we can make it even faster than that. If Jonathan gives us the go ahead on the one page

Me: Mhmm.

Them: And then it takes whatever it takes for our university to to come up to

Me: Yep. Right.

Them: figure it out. Okay.

Me: Okay. I'll let you send me a one pager. I'll do some poke around and try to get the info back to you as soon as I can. See what we can make from there.

Them: Okay.

Me: Great.

Them: Alright.

Me: Thanks a lot.

Them: Thanks, Jeff.

Me: Alright. Bye.


