

**Chad / Sue / Kathy check in**
===============================

Attendees:

Susan Brau

kjesseneller@concord.org,sbrau@concord.org

2025\-08\-25T11:30:00\-04:00

\-\-\-\-

\#\#\# DAISY Project Status \& Direction

\- Grant funding reduced from $61k to \\\~$20k due to NSF changes

\- Focus shifted to completing existing work rather than extensive new research

\- Timeline extended to June to accommodate revised scope

\- General project direction approved by Chad

\#\#\# Teacher Recruitment \& Fall Implementation

\- Doug Rademacher (Met School) switched from spring to fall semester

\- Already involved in data conferences and NSTA article writing

\- Will teach 12 students this fall

\- Awaiting response from Bayview teacher on semester switch

\- Juanita Sanchez moved schools, requesting to teach 2 classes during planning period

\- Background unclear, highly knowledgeable but not STEM\-focused

\- Awaiting principal approval

\- Payment structure questions remain for teachers who switched schools

\#\#\# Turk Partnership \& Data Analysis

\- Turk sent invoice but no formal agreement acknowledged

\- Decision: Turk should focus on analyzing existing data only

\- Fall deadline set for Turk to complete analysis of current dataset

\- Communication issues noted:

\- Doug’s data previously excluded by mistake

\- Limited collaboration on conference paper writing

\- Unclear what data Turk actually possesses

\#\#\# Data Collection Strategy

\- Kathy wants to collect new data from Doug’s fall class

\- Winter data\-thon planned as single event (not multiple)

\- Data collection timeline allows analysis through June extension

\- Focus on data science evolution documentation for potential publication

\#\#\# Next Steps

\- Chad to review original DAISY proposal for external evaluator requirements

\- Kathy to email original proposal to Chad

\- Meeting scheduled with Turk immediately following this call

\- Administrative details to be resolved between Sue and Kathy regarding teacher payments

\-\-\-

Chat with meeting transcript: \[https://notes.granola.ai/d/fe9f4a74\-577d\-4c46\-bd5d\-0620158b6056?source\=zapier](https://notes.granola.ai/d/fe9f4a74\-577d\-4c46\-bd5d\-0620158b6056?source\=zapier)

\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=

\-\-\-\-

Granola link: https://notes.granola.ai/d/fe9f4a74\-577d\-4c46\-bd5d\-0620158b6056

\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=

Transcript:

Me: Hello?

Them: Hello. How are you?

Me: Okay. How are you?

Them: K.

Me: Processing.

Them: Hold, please.

Me: Yes. I don't have the narrative. For Daisy. Assume we don't ask Cassie for it during this

Them: I'm sorry. I didn't hear the question.

Me: You don't you don't have a daily narrative, do you? I'll ask Kathy for it. I didn't find it in Drive.

Them: Yeah. We do some more. Yeah. You can ask. Kathy for it too.

Me: Here she is. I'll

Them: And then and she we also have

Me: I'll let her in.

Them: the

Me: Right. Yeah.

Them: report annual report that she submitted

Me: Mhmm.

Them: I don't know if you have that. Hey, Kathy.

Me: I don't know if I do. Hi, Kathy. How are doing? Oops. We don't hear you. At least I don't.

Them: I hear you.

Me: If you absolutely need to, you can phone into

Them: This has definitely felt like a Monday morning.

Me: Yes. Yeah. See about Yes. We hear you.

Them: Can you hear me? Yes.

Me: Excellent.

Them: Okay. Oh my gosh. I'm sorry.

Me: That's right.

Them: My my college kids was here, and they helped me fix the volume on Friday. And I thought it was all set. And they showed me how to do it, and I tried to do what they did, and it work. So Yeah. That. Yeah. I always need my college kid.

Me: Yes. Exactly.

Them: He's not at college anymore, but I still need him.

Me: Alright. So Steve posted a document that if we don't have it, we should have up.

Them: Go

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Yeah. It's it's Kathy, you saw it. I think it's the recap that I had done from our last meeting, trying to orient Chad. Great. Everyone's in there. I didn't the very end, when we well, what we needed your guidance about, Chad, I sort of petered out when I got to that point.

Me: That's okay.

Them: It's I think it's Kathy can certainly give a lot more background than I can, but

Me: Yep.

Them: but it's been a while since we've checked in on, like, the bigger picture, the programmatic picture of where DAISY is headed. And so I just wanted to get your input thumbs up, thumbs down, whatever, before we continue forward down this path.

Me: Right. Exactly. Yep. And soon I had a chance to check\-in on on this overall, Kathy, And, I mean, it seems like the directions that we're laying out here are, in general, the the right ones. I mean, I think that given the sort of timing and focus, it does make sense to focus the work that people have done already on, you know, finishing that off, Turks work on finishing the that they've done, especially given that they seem to, you know, say that that's what's occupying their their head. Which it seems like should be probably a smaller scope than maybe is on tap right now. So I think that's part of the part of the conversation with them and maybe internally. It seems like the it's not clear to me either what Scott has how they've engaged with us in terms of formal, you know, agreements. But I agree with Sue that you know, the fact that they sent us an invoice doesn't mean that we acknowledged or asked for or are paying for that invoice. So we need to back on that in the right ways. And in terms of project work, it does seem to me that both at know, weird acting in good faith to try to pay, you know, teachers for the work that we are teeing up. That, you know, with the grant change, we haven't you know, we're not oriented in a way that makes it feasible to pay 61 k in any way, shape, or form. But we think we could use that in a meaningful way to, you know, push things forward. So I think it would be meaningful to go back back to NSF and ask if we could swap that over keeping the, you know, $20\.20 k or whatever So all that seems in line to me. Don't know if there are open questions on that that you have or we have.

Them: Well, I did I'm not sure if it was a week or two weeks ago. I did ask all the teachers that participated if they would like to if they could switch their classes from the spring semester to the fall semester. And so I haven't heard from for sure. From two teachers. I've heard from two that they cannot I've heard from one that he would like to he he's done it. He switched out the spring semester with the fall semester. So I would like to support him in teaching this semester. This is Doug Rademacher from the Met School, and he's been very involved in the data con and then and also in still presenting at meetings. And then co writing an NSTA article. So so he made that switch. He was able to do that. They have a lot of leniency at the med school. Not leniency, flexibility. And then I'm waiting to hear from Bayview if they can switch. And so I haven't heard back from them yet. A teacher from Juanita Sanchez who we've supported for two years is now at a different school in Providence and he emailed me. And I I had emailed him his Yahoo email, and he emailed me saying he's at a different school and he would like to teach it. Mhmm. And he could teach it two classes. During his planning period. But he doesn't have a STEM background. I don't know what his background is. He's very well spoken. He's from my gosh. I can't believe I forget where he's from. He's from Latin America, somewhere in South America. But he's highly intelligent. I don't know what his I mean, not wanna say intelligent, knowledgeable. Yeah. So so I don't know what his background is. But, anyway, he asked me to email his principal and suggest that he teach it during his planning period. And I haven't heard back from that. So I guess the bottom line is that I have at least one teacher who would like to teach it this coming semester. I have at least two teachers from last year who are now expecting the $4,500 that we pay to the school to support the computer science teacher division. And now I have a teacher that switched schools And so the question is because last year, he taught that in his planning period. But that 4,500 goes to him for teaching it last year. Or would it go to his school? So traditionally, sent it to the school and and then they can they distribute it to the teacher. Or they, you know, use it as they wish. Yeah. I think I think that there's a lot of, like, these, like, smaller administrative questions that you and I need to plow through, Kathy. And I I just want to actually, focus on the bigger picture for Chad. Okay. Like, the like so it sounds like you've got at least one teacher lined up for the fall, but it also sounds like there are teachers interested in teaching in the spring. Is that the case? There are. Okay. There's one teacher one or two teachers interested in teaching in the spring. Okay. So this is still like the fall, or Kathy corrected me. She's right. It's not fall spring, but, like,

Me: But

Them: semester one, semester two. Breakdown still makes sense. So that we'll try to target the June for this grant. And then have just one data thon, which would be in the winter, which is would be like a a yeah. One more day that's done. And that makes sense. Right? Yeah. For the plans. But I'm not so sure about supporting teachers in the spring. Because when I first sent them the email, I said we only could offer this and it was before we talked. To Mhmm. Last time. And I said, we can only offer this in the fall as possibility. And so I feel bad that Doug went to all this work to switch his class because we're 12 students.

Me: I mean, it

Them: For this fall, and

Me: it I don't think it is where it is if we are able to offer it in the spring and get more out of the project. Then I think that's just you know, the the opportunity is there. So, I think

Them: Okay.

Me: shortcut the project just because of somebody. I mean, if he was able to do it, that's great. It gives us more info, and maybe he can participate differently in the data thon. That's good.

Them: Yeah.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: That's true. For I'm sorry, Kathy. Did you wanna Oh, no. I I was just going to move on to the next few questions we had that that I know we had tagged in our last conversation for Chad, but was there something you were gonna add? I think it was also the moving on. I I have a meeting with Turk right after this one. And and I'm wondering as a nonprogrammatic person, does it make sense to have Turk just analyze the data that we have and say, like, don't worry about any data we're collecting this year. We're using it as, like, a dissemination period and not research and analysis. Well, you know? I guess part of the problem is is that I know what what's going on with the data that they collected. So to me, this is an opportunity to collect more data and evaluate it and have more say in what's going on with the data. Because

Me: But it it sounded like they were not you know,

Them: a lot of

Me: sounded like Turk wasn't able to wrap their head around that piece or or their worker on that piece. Is that what you were saying earlier?

Them: I'm sorry. I didn't quite get what you said, Chad.

Me: Yeah. Yeah. It's that that that Turk wasn't really able to wrap their head around the idea of doing more research on this, you know, given that they already had the data and were chugging on it. You know, is it the case that wasn't didn't fit in their paradigm or or timing to try to imagine collecting more data and analyzing it. I mean, that's often the case at the end of a project anyway. Mhmm.

Them: Yeah. I think I think the point that resonates with me is that you may try last time is that the amount of money that they're they have right now is for could support two and a half times my support right now. And and so if they're not collecting data, this spring I mean, this fall and spring, then I would like us to collect data. I want to collect data because I don't Oh, what happened with the other day? I said,

Me: Mhmm.

Them: there's not a lot of match data. And I I think, you know, I'm I'm not sure with the IRB and everything, like, if you're persistently asking for to ensure that the student IDs are matching and you know, I suggested at one point that they go there and make sure for the actual that someone from Turf go there and make sure that you know, the students are using the same numbers in the before and after because the results has always been a very small

Me: Mhmm.

Them: sample size. And they did collect data for a couple of conferences that Mike led with a post a recent addition to the Turk staff, the new tree. And but it was based on a question that or data that we started to at least saw there was a difference in how the test came out. And so Mike and I started to write a paper for a conference, and he said he would talk to his team about it. And about what would be a good research question for that. And then the next thing I knew, Anishri was writing the conference paper and then, like and I I wasn't a part of that conversation anymore. So and this was when we had funding.

Me: Yeah.

Them: And he apologized for that, but I don't know if

Me: Mhmm.

Them: anyone else got that. But I'm just saying that there just hasn't been a lot of he he will send information, like just

Me: Mhmm.

Them: raw data to me. When something is coming up. And he has sent an analysis of data, but when he sent the analysis data, I realized that Doug's information was not included, and I asked about it. Anyway, it turned out it was a mistake.

Me: So, I mean, it sound it sounds like

Them: So that data agency

Me: it it sounds like getting them to focus on getting getting their whatever analysis they're doing finished in some kind of paper out based upon the work that they've done already is the the best ask for Turk, because I'd certainly don't think given what you're describing that they'll be able to take on and take in any more data. And, you know, I also don't know that that mean, you can think about what you decide to collect, but but, certainly, if this is done in March, April, May, June, you the analysis of the data and doing more work on that writing is gonna be, you know, difficult, if not impossible. So think about whether you decide to, you know, ask for surveys of things, but I wouldn't put extensive time into on our side into collecting data in a way that we know we can analyze. I mean, I think, considering it of dissemination and refining the dissemination model, I think, is valid project work as well. You know, there's research work coming out of Turk regardless, and you can push them on on that piece on doing what they can with what they have.

Them: Well, guess I don't really know exactly what they have.

Me: Yeah. I mean, that's that's probably what what would need to be sorted out.

Them: And I really do want to collect data

Me: And

Them: I do wanna collect data with Doug this fall, and I do wanna collect data from the data comm.

Me: Mhmm. Yep.

Them: And so that would be the

Me: Mhmm.

Them: fall semester, and that would be in January. And to me, that still gives enough time if we extend it to June to analyze that data. And write papers about it. I think that data science is particularly important

Me: Mhmm.

Them: important paper because you've seen its evolution of the data. And and how, you know, we ultimately evolve this data science over last

Me: Right.

Them: So does it I guess what I'm saying is I don't want to give all the money to Turk.

Me: Right. I think I agree I agree with that as well.

Them: No. If you do the final analysis.

Me: Yep. Mhmm. Yep.

Them: It it sound it's so it make sense if we you know, again, we have turk. Them we give them fall deadlines to do the analysis the data that they already have in hand so we understand what the data is that they have in hand and what their analysis is. And meanwhile, we collect

Me: Yep.

Them: the data for this final year, whatever, that is, and then we put it all together.

Me: Yeah. I I I I think that's the way to do it and to

Them: For lack of a better word.

Me: and to tell Turk that their job is to analyze the previous data and to go from there.

Them: Yep.

Me: Yep. I'm totally sorry. I actually have a program officer from NSF Food who who is jumping in, So I'm gonna end this and start with him. But, Kathy, on the evaluation, I can circle back with you via email about that. If you can mail me the original

Them: Okay.

Me: original proposal, for Daisy. Then I'll look at that because I I don't think we need an external evaluator. That's probably gonna be more trouble than it's

Them: Yes.

Me: worth, but I'll but I but I well, I know we can't do it internally. Let me look at that language and and you more feedback from there. Mhmm. Okay.

Them: Okay. Alright. Thank you. Alright. Thank you. Thanks, Jen.

Me: Alright. So sorry to keep you guys up. Thanks. Bye.

Them: Bye.

Me: Yeah. Yeah.

Them: Sue. Oh, oh, Chad.

Me: Tell you what. If you email us, we'll where you can go from there.

Them: Okay. Alright. Thank you.

Me: Hey there, David. Sorry to keep you waiting. Hi there, David.

Them: Hey. How are you doing?

Me: Fine. Sorry to keep you waiting. How's how's your world?

Them: You know?


