

**CODAP POSE Check\-in**
========================

Attendees:

William Finzer,,Daniel Damelin

wfinzer@concord.org,zopps@concord.org,ddamelin@concord.org

2025\-08\-11T15:45:00\-04:00

\-\-\-\-

\#\#\# Phase Two Proposal Focus

\- Core proposal must center around organization creating open source ecosystem

\- No subawards or collaborating organizations due to funding constraints and scope

\- Need infrastructure involving much more than just Concord

\- ESTEEM network will be important partner at undergraduate pre\-service education level

\- CODAP is primary technology they’re promoting

\- Collaboration through conferences, not subawards

\#\#\# User Community Growth Strategy

\- Subgroups identified with growth potential:

\- Subject\-differentiated teacher bases

\- International user base (especially Korea numbers)

\- Teacher preparation programs

\- Researchers

\- Curriculum developers

\- University\-level users

\- Two\-year college users

\- Ed tech developers

\- Each segment needs tailored strategies and evidence of existing foothold

\- Community college instructors showed immediate adoption in past workshops (2015\)

\- University professors at ESTEEM Summit expressed strong interest beyond pre\-service education

\#\#\# Community Building Initiatives

\- Conference strategy:

\- First CODAP user conference attached to existing events (DSEK12\)

\- Start small with potential to grow with additional funding

\- Half\-day governance discussion for subset of attendees

\- Financial support needed for teacher participation

\- Engagement mechanisms:

\- Webinars targeted to different audience segments

\- Plugin showcase/hackathon at DS4E conferences

\- Prize competitions for plugin development

\- Student data storytelling contests (similar to post\-AP activities)

\- Resource database as showcase platform for contributors

\- Dataset ecosystem development:

\- “Want ads” for dataset cleaning projects

\- Community\-driven documentation and lesson development

\- Assignment opportunities for university students

\#\#\# Plugin Development Community

\- Strong examples of independent development:

\- Andrew Ross: correlation matrix scatter plots using Cursor AI

\- Brown Group exceptional work

\- Taka’s meaningful contributions

\- Plugin developers represent separate growth segment with different needs

\- API documentation sufficient for motivated non\-programmers

\- CODAP as container/platform for diverse applications

\#\#\# Technical Issues and Beta Progress

\- Andrew Ross needs help with:

\- Graph placement in grid layouts (working in v2, broken in v3\)

\- Segmented bar charts for categorical variables

\- Beta testing underway at \[codap3\.concord.org](http://codap3\.concord.org)

\- Performance issue identified: sampler running 100 samples of 1 item vs 1 sample of 100 items

\- Doug to fix when back from vacation

\- Chromebook testing valuable for identifying student device performance issues

\#\#\# Next Steps

\- Chad to connect Andrew Ross with Bill for technical discussion

\- Chad to work with Dan on proposal development using existing governance materials

\- Consider analytics on beta instance to track usage without feedback

\- Include plugin development community prominently in proposal narrative

\-\-\-

Chat with meeting transcript: \[https://notes.granola.ai/d/bbb3f788\-c800\-4e16\-a584\-782e9702c1b7](https://notes.granola.ai/d/bbb3f788\-c800\-4e16\-a584\-782e9702c1b7\)

\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=

\-\-\-\-

Granola link: https://notes.granola.ai/d/bbb3f788\-c800\-4e16\-a584\-782e9702c1b7

\=\=\=\=\=\=\=\=

Transcript:

Them: The item that Jay, are you in our agenda?

Me: I am not.

Them: I'll put the link in that chat.

Me: That'd be awesome. Thank you. Alright. Now I am. Alright.

Them: The item that's uppermost in my mind is last on the list and it's the phase two proposal.

Me: Yes, that's uppermost in my mind as well. Yes. So

Them: Bear with URLs. So if you've looked at yes. You're in there. The proposal submission plan. I haven't looked at the old time series. So I can't blame one way or another. Oh, the first question there, Chad, Dan and I talked about that. And he's he and I both agree that given that this proposal has to be centered around an organization that will bring about the open source ecosystem, then we are talking about this thing that we've been calling that. And so how are you with that? Given the size of the grant, we came to the conclusion that there is not a collaborating organization as part of this proposal.

Me: Right.

Them: There are people from organizations that we can enlist as something or other

Me: Yes.

Them: the proposal if we choose to do that.

Me: Yep. I, yeah, I agree. I mean, I I think it I don't think we have room for nor does it make sense to have a subaward or a collaborative or something like that. Because if you have one subaward, why don't you have seven? And the way, the money's small. And I think we need to propose an infrastructure that has much more than just us involved in some way, shape, or form.

Them: Right. Good. So we've answered those two questions.

Me: Excellent.

Them: I talked with Holly Lynn when I was at the ESTEEM Summit.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: And the network that they're putting together, will is will become an important entity at the undergraduate level for pre service education.

Me: Okay. Good.

Them: And CODAP is and will be the primary technology

Me: Good.

Them: put forward And collaborating with them with that network, I believe, can be an important part of this proposal that is that they exist and are a major player in the ecosystem that we're putting together

Me: Mhmm.

Them: and how we involve them during the time period of this project is to be worked out, but it won't be as a subaward. It'll be as, part of the perhaps it's part of the conference that we put together

Me: Mhmm.

Them: around code app the pre which we precede by a half day conference This is what we've talked about in past meetings. Where a subset of the full conference convenes to talk about and agree on

Me: Mhmm.

Them: the governance structure for the open source ecosystem.

Me: And say another sentence or two about the conference and how that features in the proposal, what's the sort of marginal mode? How does that interleave with the arguments in in the phase two proposal?

Them: It would be a way of convincing reviewers that we are actually coming into existence that we have a mechanism by which governance will be instituted, become

Me: Yeah. No. I'm I'm talking about the the you said this was before the main

Them: part of it,

Me: conference. Is the main conference the the the d s e k 12 as this code app? Is it is it separate conference? And

Them: Oh, so

Me: and what's mode there?

Them: So we have talked about it here as a as a hypothetical separate conference, but I don't think that's set in stone at all.

Me: Okay. Whatever. Yeah. And and you've talked about it, is that conference interleaved as part of the argument of in the phase two you know, sort of rationale or it mostly a thing to hang the governance conversations on Okay.

Them: I think that's to be decided.

Me: I do think we need user conference

Them: But it would be a this would be the first user conference

Me: of some type or another. I'm Mhmm.

Them: is is what we're talking about at Zac. That's yeah. That's exactly what I was going to say. And just thinking you know, things like DSC k 12 appeal to academics who want their who want a venue to share their research. It works for practitioners who want to share lessons and learn more. We feel I'm I'm not as familiar with a user conference Would there be formal sessions that people submit proposals to share and there's some prestige along with with sharing some kind of resources or materials presentations kind of thing, or is it a totally

Me: It's a good question.

Them: different structure? So

Me: Bill, tell us about user conferences you've had for Fathom and stuff. Mhmm. What you were just gonna do, probably. Oh,

Them: We did not have user conferences. We had user group meetings.

Me: right. In person,

Them: In person at at other at meetings like NCTM.

Me: Okay. Were they how long were they? Like, half day, one hour?

Them: And and they were just

Me: Okay.

Them: they were just several hours. And they were funded by Key Curriculum Press So and very in they were so people I can't remember if they applied to present or we reached out to people, there were presentations during this several hour user group meeting By the way, Fathom was one of the subuser groups at one of these events. Which typically took place

Me: Mhmm.

Them: after dinner or maybe during the same time period as

Me: Mhmm.

Them: people would have dinner, and and there would all there would always be food. And I think there was always drink too.

Me: Mhmm. Mhmm.

Them: So they were not cheap, but we had a publisher. But the great thing was that people sat at tables and there was a there there was, like, a an a program in front of everybody, and here are the here are the users who are present things at tables. And we're gonna switch every I don't remember what it what it was. Fifteen minutes, twenty minutes. And and if a table is full, come back during the next time period. Kind of thing. And it was it was really fun and exciting kind of user conference. And it was all about users presenting interesting things for other users.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Now when we talk about a code app user group, that's one model consider or one model for a portion of a of a day and a half.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Conference. And the but but there were we have I haven't

Me: I

Them: thought about the structure of of such a conference, and there are many many opportunities for building community

Me: Right. Mhmm.

Them: if if you've got a time period like that.

Me: Yeah. That's a good question. I'm just sort of looking at the the needs there and trying to think about how to to thread the needle. I mean, so, obviously, having a DS a k 12 is a good thing and little bit of an albatross in that it's not the only thing, but it's in other words, you can't, like, you can't put the thing in the middle of it, so you'd have to hang it on the side in some way, kinda like you were describing But it's a natural draw for people anyway because are you gonna get people for an international code app user conference for a day and a half or two days probably not right at that first. But I think we wanna argue that there's there are enough users that we can actually get them together, you know, in some way, shape, or form. So it could be that the answer is it's gonna be something that always hangs on one thing or another for at least until it's got until or if somebody sees momentum to have a be its own thing, but it's NCTM or DSEK 12 every other year or something like that. I'm not sure.

Them: So one of the one of the things about the DSC k twelve conference and seeking a lot of different audiences, we found that especially teachers struggle financially to make it to an in person conference. And so a good chunk of the scholarships went to practitioners And I would I would think this would have a similar if it you know, if it's important that it's an in person I think there's a lot of energy around an in person conference, if we wanted teachers well represented if at all possible, if there could be some funding. Especially if it's a day and a half, it might be a little tougher sell. For those who do have some kind of funding. You know, to to travel, be out of the classroom, you know, and then have the lodging and and flight expense So, Chad, your question about is this part of the proposal, I don't know whether, you know, if this is the best use of funds or not, but it would be it would be good for us to consider

Me: Yeah.

Them: some some kind of you know, financial support if we want a wide spectrum of participants.

Me: I mean definitely, I think you could you could do that. You know, I don't think there's a problem with it. I think I think the only questions are what's you know, what reads as sort of the right level of a thing that you're doing and credible as a thing you could, you know, continue. You you don't want it to be something that only that you could only do because you've got grant funds or what have you. Wanna to have some you you want the reader to say, oh, okay. This this is this is gonna go for five years after this thing is done. Like, totally get it.

Them: So what about describing it as a smallish conference with

Me: I think so.

Them: potential to get bigger if we find other funding.

Me: And, you know, I think I think saying it's it's standalone that's attached to something is probably credible and who and it's probably what we we would end up doing anyway. So I could see

Them: Attached to something as in this would this would be after DSC k 12 or something is over.

Me: I think something

Them: Would be a day and a half. And then that

Me: I don't know. Right? I mean, that's the you you get into those issues

Them: another half day for those who are involved in the governance. Yeah.

Me: but, you know, you're back and forth between either that or are you really gonna get people to come, you know, three months later to a separate, you know, in person conference? I don't know.

Them: Yep. Are we pull back and say it's attached to this if

Me: Right. Mhmm.

Them: k 12, and it's not a day and a half. It's one day.

Me: Yeah.

Them: Or half a day or

Me: Exactly. Yeah.

Them: you know, starts small but has built into the proposal the potential to turn into something bigger

Me: Yeah. I think

Them: if we find additional funding.

Me: what's more important is that we can plausibly say people are gonna get together We do have a community. It's already and we could point to the DIC kid 12, you know, presentations and things as as real evidence people have, you know, that there's a user community that's, you know, already, you know, burgeoning, etcetera. And, you know, we could if we're saying it's a we're going to give them their own space, and in a place where they're already coming together. I think that's what really matters in it all.

Them: And we get buy in from Zac and other organizers as part of this proposal?

Me: Yep. Yep. Exactly. Mhmm.

Them: We bring it up with them and see where how they

Me: What are the other ecosystem

Them: they think about it. Do you think that

Me: you know, other because so HoloLens teacher prep is another is a different one. I mean, that's this conference is for for all is, like, sent essential node maybe. But other than, you know, teacher prep, you feel like there's sort of a something. We could talk about Andrew Ross as an example. Like, what if we were to say, are the the pillars of our user base? What do we think they are?

Them: I'm not sure Like, if you think about NSTA, So science teachers is that a pillar in the sense you're talking about, or

Me: I don't know. Maybe. I mean, certainly, sort of sub by it's subject here. You know, subject differentiated is one.

Them: I think considering the numbers that we've seen they're this maybe isn't an answer to your pillar question, but it's really important for to consider how do we include the international audience. You know, you look at the Korea numbers and, you know, some other smaller pockets, it would be great to make sure their voice is heard, especially in the governance discussion.

Me: Yep. I agree. And that international user base is one that we want to grow certainly. And listen to because their needs are different. Maybe that's maybe it's a role based that, you know, who so teacher prep is they would have different needs. Then international, whatever international is, then teacher bases by subject. What do we think are other hats of that people wear as they're coming into this?

Them: Have we already covered the research and curriculum developer groups? Because they have they have been the main pillar

Me: I don't think so. Yep. And those are two different ones. Right?

Them: They

Me: Mhmm.

Them: in terms of NSF projects, they

Me: Right. Do we

Them: so often become one thing. We we propose to do this research

Me: think

Them: order to do it. We develop this curriculum that these curriculum materials.

Me: But in terms of the hat that they're, like, if you were to imagine it growing, like, you inflate that balloon. I The curriculum developer set of needs and ethos is different than the researcher ethos even though they happen to be the same right now in many cases.

Them: Yes.

Me: Uh\-huh. We would you could imagine a sub call of curriculum developers that would have

Them: Yes.

Me: different conversations than the sub call of researchers. Yeah.

Them: Which brings to mind another thing that we can do cheaply

Me: Mhmm.

Them: during this project, this funded project is to have a series of webinars

Me: Yes. Definitely.

Them: aimed at these different audiences. And that's that can be a major mechanism for building the open source ecosystem, building the community around it,

Me: Mhmm. I think so. Yeah. I mean, I think as I'm know, thinking about those suburbs, just trying to like, why am I asking that? I mean, I think it's because we wanna see we want the segments for which there's growth potential We want to identify those and essentially we want to grow you know, each of those segments, you know, to their own needs in some way shape or form.

Them: And the research component and the curriculum development component, if we now think of them as separate, it's straightforward to imagine reaching out to that community and getting buy ins for them to commit and attend. A webinar or a series of

Me: Mhmm.

Them: webinars. The practitioner is much harder

Me: Yeah. Mhmm.

Them: even though there are hundreds of thousands more of them.

Me: Right. And that's where the subject thing feels like it starts to come in. Is that it's easier to imagine biology teacher biology slash life science teacher maybe, or I know what, you know, English teachers or something to me than it is. Like, teachers. But maybe I'm wrong about that. Mhmm.

Them: No. I think you're right about that.

Me: University teachers, professors, is that a different user base? Is it is it a real user base? Is it different than community college?

Them: I think it's a completely undeveloped user base except for pre service education.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: But at the esteemed summit, there were they had resurface teacher educators and

Me: Mhmm.

Them: most of them came with a subject matter instructor. And those people were very turned on to Kodap and said, I'm gonna be using this in my x course where it's not a preservice education course.

Me: K. Mhmm. And those were random university professors?

Them: They were random stats and math people.

Me: Okay. Yeah.

Them: Now they were they were

Me: Sure. Yeah. Yeah. Bye.

Them: random stats and math people who have an interest in education.

Me: But, you know, it's that's a signal that there is is room for growth in the university level use.

Them: Yes. And Zac, we didn't you and Dan didn't go to a community college conference in No. But we we should we should reach we should reach out

Me: Mhmm.

Them: some we should plan in this proposal

Me: Yes.

Them: to somehow reach out to the community college community not at the level of we're going to take we're going to establish ourselves

Me: Mhmm.

Them: more at the level we're going to test the waters there.

Me: Yes. Yes. I think right.

Them: And I just well, we'll take you back to a community college instructor conference. That Randy and I went to and that ran. We ran a two day workshop back in 02/2015, probably. And they were

Me: Mhmm.

Them: they were onboard immediately. So they were a special subgroup in that they do research themselves, and they try to involve their students in their research.

Me: Sure. But

Them: So that's not random

Me: mhmm.

Them: math science teacher, but it's it was still a a pretty strong yes need to be using this.

Me: Yep.

Them: In my community college teaching. Indicator

Me: Yeah. So, I mean, I think that's think that's a big part of this is, you know, evidence, you know, like, those segmented subgroups. The, you know, the evidence that we already have for existence of those subgroups, I'm seeing a table here or whatever, and the strategy for each of those subgroups which is tailored slightly differently for different ones and yet has some common polls like webinars or what have you. Because I think we can make the case you know, for each one of these that we listed. And I've got, you know, seven of them already written down from what we just described. And and we can make a case that they are not we've not tapped out the potential by any means in all those, like, that's that's what phase two is about. Is, you know, growing each one of those things. Yeah.

Them: Well, it's partly about growing. But it's at least half about establishing

Me: Yes. Mhmm.

Them: the platform for growth

Me: Right.

Them: So because Concord Consortium is not that platform as it's currently constituted.

Me: Yep. Yep.

Them: This thing that we're talking about becomes that and looking into the future, then

Me: Mhmm.

Them: the growth has

Me: Yes.

Them: that's a home base. You know, another audience, I don't know if that's the right word, but that we haven't talked about are software developers.

Me: Right. Exactly.

Them: Yeah. And and the potential for less expert software developers as

Me: Yes. Mhmm.

Them: Chad and others have demonstrated the use of AI to

Me: Yep.

Them: create plug ins The plug in development

Me: Yes.

Them: the code app plug in development community,

Me: Huge thing. I totally agree.

Them: could be a big thing.

Me: Mhmm. Yep.

Them: We have seen over and over again, code app as a container slash platform

Me: Mhmm.

Them: for so many different things. And bringing that to a level of establishment and reality and platform for growth can be

Me: Yeah.

Them: very important and convincing part of this proposal, especially as you think about the open source

Me: Yeah. And I think,

Them: nature of the thing we're talking about.

Me: there's a case where having good examples is gonna be you've highly useful to show that that people can do those independently or, you know, just some degree already or that that and and that they're developing plug ins for a diverse set of reasons. You know, basically, there's there's huge there's a foothold already. There's growth potential. That's a separate entity, you know, a separate sort of thing, you know, within itself. And, I mean, we should have those. We should make sure that we're collecting the good ones. Know, Andrew Ross is one of them. And pointing those out because that's those are pearls for the necklace of this argument for sure. Right.

Them: And Jay's colleague the

Me: Right.

Them: plug in may not be all that

Me: Mhmm. Yep.

Them: wonderful. It's still a pearl in the necklace.

Me: Are there others that are, you know, I mean, we know the Brown Group is exceptional. Taka is meaningful as well. I think Andrew Ross is the more recent example of, like, woah. You know, really taking a run with it, and he's, you know, he he sent me another email on Friday. He's He's yeah. So he has

Them: What has he done? I haven't been tracking that.

Me: he is developing a what do you call it? Basically, matrix of scatter plots that you can look at at matrices and scatter plots for all the kinds of things that you do, when those correlation matrices. And has been doing great gangbusters with on his own end with cursor developing a plug in, started with choosy and now it's I've with it recently, but it's, you know, laying out series of these scatter plots based upon whatever you pulled in as a table and removing them and changing them what have you. So he's, you know, he's been off and running mostly on his own with the documentation that was there. And he's, you know, he's got his own well, to give you a sense of sort of the inroads, you know, he definitely his program thinks He's definitely not a programmer. He keeps on, like, intending to set up GitHub So he's, like, very much like a garage programmer kind of mentality. And he took the API. He's like, oh, like this? And I'm like, yeah. Yeah. I like that. But, you know, I'm a little bit to the left. And he went and ran that direction and you know, kept on going. I showed him I sort of helped him get started on Cursor and all of a sudden he's like, oh, then like this. And I'm like, woah. Yeah. Yeah. So so it's been a really good example of how you know, was a will and the ability to read the API documentation enough geekiness, but not a ton. You know, there's there's a way, And I'm sure there are several others of the examples of that out there that we can pull in from recent you know, times.

Them: Yeah.

Me: So that's yes. So I totally agree. That's a separate it is a thing, and it's a separate thing in and of itself. Lots of ways. So I'm looking at the project description sections here. So there's ecosystem establishment and growth, and there's community building, which are similar and somewhat different at the same time, I guess. Well, the establishment and growth is discovery of these groups and sort of building them out. And then the community building is overlapping, but somewhat different. Let's spend a minute bringing

Them: So you're looking at the

Me: I'm looking at that tab one where yeah. Exactly.

Them: project description

Me: Those sections that are highlighted in gray. How do we think community building differs from, you ecosystem development, and how is it the same, and what have we thought about in terms of community building so far that I should have in my head? I mean, this user group is one of them or one layer of it. But not the only one, I'm sure.

Them: Well, I think that the discussion we've been having

Me: Mhmm.

Them: is has been about community building.

Me: So webinars Right.

Them: Ecosystem development is different

Me: Mhmm.

Them: in that it in includes community development but it's it's a description of the entity that coordinates all this. It's got staff. It's got a budget. It's got fundraising. You know, it's it's it's the larger thing.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: That support in my mind, that supports

Me: Yeah. Well and if you read the description there on that

Them: community building.

Me: second page, know, they're talking about the strategy and plans and I think the keyword is potential. Users. So, basically, how are you identifying and growing those lobes, you know, that we were talking about some degree and what what does each one of them

Them: Mhmm.

Me: need to be able to, like, get a handhold Like, how are you gonna get two year college, you know, people Exactly.

Them: So what is your discovery strategy?

Me: And how are you gonna just how how are you gonna

Them: Are you gonna grow it

Me: find the needs of and bring in to your college, you know, people and okay. So once you've got them in, then then you're scrolled down to the community building. Okay. Fine. Great. But long term, like, are you gonna grow everybody And, obviously, there's some overlap because getting people together is a common thing and having webinar is a common thing. But what do we think that like, what are the pieces of long term community building that we think are unique, effective, important in this

Them: Yeah. And there's an interplay of this open source ecosystem around

Me: Mhmm.

Them: piece of software an open source piece of software, and the d s four e community The the the goal of bringing about more data science education

Me: Mhmm.

Them: that I think we we can it's not a needle exactly. It's it's a

Me: Mhmm.

Them: different facets of of a message. That the goal of getting more data happening in in classrooms at all levels across all subjects. Is incredibly well incredibly strengthened and supported by the existence of this piece of software.

Me: Right. Yeah. Yeah. So one of our goals is to see it show up much more from, you know, clearly at 12, for example.

Them: But

Me: And to, you know, have a to feel like there's a natural sub community within that that place for it. And that could be you know, an outcome and a and a sort of fertilization opportunity.

Them: Yeah. There's a a way in which

Me: Mhmm.

Them: this thing we're talking about is the software. But it's also

Me: Yeah.

Them: a substrate for something

Me: And the other piece that's in that community building is the

Them: much larger.

Me: contributors, developers, piece. So I think that's that's another layer of the community pieces. You're getting people walked up that chain of you know, good to contributor, you know, user to contributor

Them: Ten. By bringing people into that community of user contributors, you're bringing them into the larger effort of getting more with data.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Happening. Who might not otherwise have been might not have become an important part of the data science education community, but because of this opportunity that this open source ecosystem presents, it draws people in with expertise and enthusiasm and resources of various kinds. To strengthen

Me: Mhmm.

Them: the data science education

Me: So I'm thinking about concrete

Them: effort.

Me: examples of things that might DS three maybe as a nucleation site for those ideas. Like, sort of a plug in or hackathon showcase something like that at the s three is one example of a thing that might move people from user

Them: I like that.

Me: contributor. Right? What are other things like that? So plug in

Them: I like that.

Me: showcase slash

Them: It seems like we've had some computer science, maybe not ton, but some computer science professors who maybe also dabble in stats or something. Want to encourage their kids if they have an open ended project, their students rather, to try their hand at plug in development. Could we have some kind of

Me: just writing that. Yep. That's yep. I think you're right, Zac.

Them: I don't know if it's a competition or way of

Me: Some prize competition for

Them: getting that into

Me: plug in development. It could be a you know, student data storytelling contest or something like that. That might all right.

Them: DSPRE has had a after the AP exam where they encourage high school stats teachers, AP stats teachers to engage in some something meaningful. I wonder if there's some kind of equivalent

Me: Mhmm.

Them: that we could draw on there.

Me: Well, cash in general or some of those places we should be, you know,

Them: It could be. Yeah.

Me: about

Them: It could have several separate I'm not sure competition is the right word, but but there is plug in development. There is story data storytelling. There's I'm thinking computer science and data like, using using block programming inside of Codeb

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Verb. There's a computational element that we haven't

Me: Mhmm.

Them: pushed very hard, but if we if we did, I would have potential to bring in more of the more

Me: Right.

Them: incipient developers, I'm thinking. You know, these high school students who take on plug in development for the first time.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: Go on to do more of that, and then also contribute to the

Me: Right.

Them: main code base. And, really, you know, we think about don't remember remember how many you said you had, Chad, but the seven, nine, however many audiences it would be great if there was a something for each one of these audiences because we're describing we challenge a certain audience to do something, but then we're also describing that they share their results and they're they inspire one another. Maybe they share resources as science teachers. Here are some datasets. Maybe maybe there's something unique for each of these different audiences that encourages them to act and come together

Me: Mhmm.

Them: know, as as part of this ecosystem. And the the resource database is gonna be a part of this. That this is where you can showcase what you've done and there can be awards rewards associated with

Me: Mhmm. Yes. No. I think you're exactly right.

Them: contributing to the resource database.

Me: Oh, I think that's key. Yeah. Basically, yeah, how can you lift people up and give them and and create things that build, grow, give back to the community at the same time, give back to the ecosystem. And resources are a big example of that. Plugins datasets, etcetera,

Them: Yeah. Data sets are a huge thing. Everybody's looking for data sets. Right?

Me: Right.

Them: So enlisting educators from high school students as educators to

Me: Mhmm.

Them: university

Me: Yeah.

Them: data scientists, has the potential to greatly enlarge the datasets that are not only just available, but

Me: Uh\-huh.

Them: documented and have lessons built around them And we have Kaggle as a as a really superb example of where that

Me: Yeah. I'm wondering about sort of a a

Them: has gone in one case anyway.

Me: area that I hadn't thought about until just now as a contributing piece. Maybe it's been in the past when here are datasets that need cleaning. You know, it would be like because data cleaning is annoying in general. But some parts of it aren't necessarily that bad. And in some cases, like, actually, the action of doing it is important and might be assigned. Like you could imagine university professors assigning students' data sets to clean to sort of recognize that data cleaning is a thing. You can imagine, you know, some geeky teachers getting into this, you know, the same way people get into Wikipedia. And can can people submit want ads for datasets or something like that? Like, another you know, can they say, here's the dataset. Like, right, here's the something. And, basically, can you

Them: That's an ingredient

Me: in the same way that people talk about, like,

Them: Yeah.

Me: create documentation for things or fix typos on the website or whatever. Like this whole sort of in, an exchange, bizarre around data cleaning, dataset cleaning might be really way to engage people. Mhmm.

Them: That we should include as

Me: Mhmm. Yeah.

Them: as a kind of resource. In the resource database.

Me: Okay. Well, this is really helpful. Do we know about governance and not know about governance? And I know we've talked about that some and probably beg against the wall some

Them: So

Me: Yeah.

Them: so there are documents

Me: That's

Them: that we've created

Me: good.

Them: about governance and there's more than enough material there to

Me: That's

Them: write that that section of the proposal, describe a well developed and a sustainable organization board and dot dot

Me: Excellent. And

Them: That's we've got the material to write that section.

Me: oh, I see it down here. Governance model research discussion. Okay. I'm gonna pull it up. And into my folder. And oh, okay. So I see comments from this June. Yeah. It looks like that was starting somewhat starting from things we had, somewhat starting from AI, somewhat etcetera. Okay. Great. Yeah. There's definitely There's text. Text is cheap these days. Nice, nice, that's great. Mhmm. Cool. Okay.

Them: This proposal is

Me: Right. Exactly. It's about having to, like,

Them: not about having to invent a lot of stuff. It's

Me: gems and weed out and

Them: it's mostly about

Me: and let things sift to the top, you know,

Them: yeah.

Me: and giving a and a little bit about giving having the right amount of time for thing for things to silt up or down. Yeah. Mhmm. Yeah. That's good. Cool. Let me over at it. Just take advantage of our team here because Andrew Ross had anything needed help on. And he was asking me when we should talk to Okay. So when is it okay to switch gears now? Or so

Them: Yes.

Me: two things that Andrew Ross is interested in. Or that he needs help on. One of them is he his plug in is leveraging Kodap to make these individual scatter plots. And making a matrix of individual scatter plots in Codep And he is having issues placing individual plots in a giant grid. And so he wanted to talk to somebody about that or get some help with that. So that's that's question one about, you know, how to get him help in that where the answer might be, yeah, that's really hard because we haven't thought about that. Which was my initial response. That's thing one. And thing two is he says, trying to make a segmented bar chart for two categorical variables using FUSE dots into bars and scale percent. He said I worked a long time on this and had to give up and move on. So a segmented bar chart. For two categorical variables using fuse dots into bars and scale percent. Does that mean anything when I say it?

Them: Sir? So in Fathom, we could do that. And we didn't go that far in COTHAP There are two directions One would be to push the core code further and the other, of course, is to make a plug in that

Me: Exactly.

Them: does these things. And you run into the use the pervasive problem of, well, if I make the interface for extending the capabilities of bar charts to true ribbon charts.

Me: Course. Yep. Exactly. And the opposite

Them: Then I've added interface that makes things more complicated.

Me: Then I gotta do the whole

Them: On the other hand, if I

Me: right. Well,

Them: do this as a separate plug in, then how do I make it

Me: and and or right. And or how do I, you know,

Them: feel integral? That selection and everything works?

Me: re avoid rebuilding codec in my plug in, which is why he's been working with codep things. Okay. Well, that's useful. About placement of plots? If you were if you were making, you know, a

Them: Yeah. So

Me: four by

Them: so I would first want to know to what extent has he looked at

Me: Definitely already has it working. I think he just is running into some bugs. I mean, he has

Them: the ability to make scatter plot grids already in Karabakh.

Me: know, examples of of four by four scatter plot grids that in in codep that he's already made.

Them: And

Me: So he has a plug in there already doing that. Yeah. So here's the

Them: in plug ins or in a in CodeHUB itself?

Me: yes. Let me

Them: Oh, it it's create you have a picture?

Me: screen share. Yeah. So this is the is what he sent me.

Them: So that's different

Me: Uh\-huh.

Them: than I was thinking.

Me: Oh, he says yeah. And he said it took a long time to get the

Them: And

Me: ability to place each graph. Even then there are some issues in v two and placing graphs isn't working in v three at all. Mhmm. Probably. I don't know. Yeah. That that's most likely

Them: Meaning, the API is incomplete.

Me: the case because he has an AP. He has a version of this that's working in v two, and I think it's not working in v three. Would that make sense that the replacement of graphs API is not complete in v three? That's my guess.

Them: So then

Me: Mhmm.

Them: it's

Me: On a try. Exactly. Yeah.

Them: most likely the placement of components. And since no one's pushed hard on that, in v three, it does make sense

Me: Yep. I think so. Yeah.

Them: that there are incompletenesses and bugs And his example can form the basis of

Me: Yep.

Them: a

Me: Great. That's what that's what I thought was was probably the the end result of that.

Them: Jira story about the problem. And if he

Me: That'd that'd be great.

Them: if you can suggest to him that he reach out to me and I'd be happy to

Me: I think that'd be helpful because I think you'd love to see what he's doing

Them: talk with him directly if that

Me: I think he would get a kick out of, you know, talking it through and probably

Them: that's helpful.

Me: probably you'd both come away with ideas. And at the very least, you'd be able to tell him you know, in language that I can't why certain things can't work. Including the bar chart stuff. And I think it would be really useful for you to hear sort of how he's run at the problem because he's been very resourceful. He's said, he started with choosy and just said, alright. I'll mold this into my mold this to my will. And he's made a button to delete all the plots right now because you don't wanna close 49 graphs one by one. So he's he's done a lot. I will I will email. I I I he emailed while I was gone.

Them: Yeah. So how do you wanna connect me to him?

Me: Last week, so I'll respond to him and and connect him with you. And I think he'll and then I will I'll hear from him anyway because I'm checking in with him on how he's doing this stuff. Cool. That's awesome.

Them: Okay.

Me: Great. Well, this is really helpful for me. Is there I didn't mean to take over the whole thing, but I knew that this was the the main agenda item anyway. Is there other stuff that needs to be talked about that I should shut up about? There's a beta going. That that's that that's awesome.

Them: Yeah. We haven't got as many as much

Me: An

Them: feedback and as many bug reports as we'd hope, but they're still

Me: Not having a lot of bug reports is maybe a good thing. I mean, that's

Them: weeks left.

Me: the

Them: Sure. And we did that's a good point. Bill, do we do you know can we run analytics just on the beta instance to get a sense of how many people might be testing but not telling us anything? Or reporting anything? I would guess that it's possible, but I don't have any expertise in that area. Yeah. I don't I don't know that it's pressing now, but at some point, that might be interesting for us to consider.

Me: Is it a is it a tagged instance? And is it is it unique to but it's not the the beta is not a

Them: Yeah, it's codab,codab3\.concord.org. It's a different

Me: like

Them: URL.

Me: it isn't it's not a tagged URL, but I guess nobody else is using it outside of Concord people. So it'd be beta users plus any random developers would be the only people hitting it. Is that right? Okay. Then you could definitely do it. Mhmm.

Them: Yes. It was interesting. I spent forty five minutes with Pip Arnold And

Me: Mhmm.

Them: we encountered bugs. At least one of which I couldn't reproduce after the fact.

Me: Uh\-huh. Yeah. I found a few when I've been playing with stuff here and there.

Them: But I saw it.

Me: Not in enough that I've written them down necessarily, but but yeah. But it but I've been able

Them: So one one problem we encountered was with the sample.

Me: stuff without it guttering bugs.

Them: See, it had two dice, so the sampler, two devices, each device is a die, and she likes that because it's much more straightforward for students to write a formula for the sum of the dice. When it's in the childmost collection as opposed to in the measures collection. And then she wanted so she had it set up. To do a 100 samples of collecting one item. And that was slow. Even in fastest mode. But if you did it one sample

Me: Interesting.

Them: of a 100 items, you got the same thing instantly. So I reached out to Doug and said, Doug, is there any reason we can't do the do it instantly when it's a 100 samples of one item? He said, no. It's it's all precomputed, so it's just a matter of shipping it all over. To Codep at once.

Me: Well, I see. It was filling up a table

Them: So when he gets back from vacation, that's gonna solve one row at a time. And each time you send a case,

Me: Yep. Mhmm.

Them: to CODAP, CODAP has stuff it has to do. In this case, it was computing the sum and putting a point on the graph.

Me: Right.

Them: And that's not

Me: Mhmm.

Them: time consuming except if you're doing a 100 of them. And then it was slowing down to one a second.

Me: Yeah. Right.

Them: On a student machine.

Me: That's interesting.

Them: Yeah. So that was a a a really good outcome of that time with PIP was realizing that we could solve this the most commonly encountered performance problem.

Me: Ice. That's great.

Them: I think you bring a great point there, Bill. You know, we're largely interacting with educators here. It will be very interesting to see students using the beta or whatever version they are first exposed to on student devices. And to see where those performance issues arise that maybe we haven't been able pinpoint yet. Why I have a Chromebook sitting over here. Yeah. I Great. Turned to that. And say, let me see how slow this is over on the Chromebook.

Me: And has that been helpful?

Them: Mhmm. Oh, incredibly helpful. Now if only you could have a middle school mind. Thank what can I do to break this thing? Maybe intentionally, maybe not. Boy, do I not have that mind.

Me: That's great.

Them: But but teacher mind

Me: Mhmm.

Them: is different but very valuable. Because the teacher is thinking, how do I want this to look for my students? And that's actually what's gonna be put in front of students most often.

Me: Mhmm.

Them: But then you don't see what the student does with the teacher creation. Yes,

Me: Cool.

Them: It's not the student.

Me: Alright. Well, I added the other notes down in the bottom there. So I've got those, and I've got this Granola has the whole thing for us so I can send it on to Dan as well. And I will

Them: That's excellent. Excellent.

Me: over the next day or two, I'll start to dig in to the the actual proposal and connect with Dan whenever he's back so we can start to to mold this out of the raw material, the many raw materials that we have

Them: Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.

Me: Right.

Them: This should be assuming the post program

Me: Right.

Them: remains in existence,

Me: Yep.

Them: we should be top candidates for this even though

Me: I I agree on on both counts, so I think but I think that the

Them: the competition can be fierce.

Me: I think the competition is proposed for phase two is less fierce as we know because, you know, although you can start in either place, think they would love to see people move from phase one to phase two. Cool. That's great. Thank you.

Them: Yeah.

Me: Thank don't have anything else. I don't know, Zac, if you

Them: Alright. Are we anything else? No. I don't think so. Mean, the only thing we had on there was little review of the resource database

Me: Cool.

Them: things, and that's I don't think that's something pressing that we talk about at the moment. And we need Dan for that anyway.

Me: Alright. Very good. See you online. Thanks.

Them: Yeah. Okay.

Me: Yes. Bye.

Them: Great. Thanks. It's worthwhile. Thank you.


